Arc-enabled SQL Server - Defender for Cloud (#1581)
microsoft/azure_arc: docs/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_sqlsrv/azure/azure_arm_template_sqlsrv_defender/_index.md

---
type: docs

> title: "Arc-enabled SQL servers - Microsoft Defender for SQL servers on machines"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Azure Arc-enabled SQL server - Microsoft Defender for SQL servers on machines"
```

> title: "Azure Arc-enabled SQL server - Microsoft Defender for SQL servers on machines"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "Azure Arc-enabled SQL Server and Microsoft Defender for SQL (Windows)"
```

> linkTitle: "SQL servers on machines - Defender for Cloud"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
linkTitle: "Azure Arc-enabled SQL Server and Microsoft Defender for SQL (Windows)"
```

weight: 1
---

> ## Deploy an Azure Virtual Machine with Windows Server with Hyper-V to support nested virtualization

Reviewer: this title should mention SQL and defender

> The following Jumpstart scenario will walk you through on how to use the provided [Azure ARM Template](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/overview) to deploy an Azure VM installed with Windows Server, setup Hyper-V to support nested virtualization, and create guest VM with SQL Server 2019 on Hyper-V to demonstrate Defender for Cloud for SQL servers on machines and generate alerts for SQL attacks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following Jumpstart scenario will walk you through how to use the provided [Azure ARM Template](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/overview) to deploy an Azure VM installed with Windows Server, setup Hyper-V to support nested virtualization, and create guest VM with SQL Server 2019 on Hyper-V to demonstrate Defender for Cloud for SQL servers on machines and generate alerts for SQL attacks.
```

> By the end of the guide, you will have an Azure VM **ArcBox-Client** installed with Windows Server 2019 with Hyper-V and nested Windows Server VM **ArcBox-SQL** pre-configured with SQL Server 2019, projected as an Azure Arc-enabled SQL Server, then enabled SQL assessment and Microsoft Defender for SQL servers on machines.

Reviewer: Why is the VM named ArcBox-Client if this is not ArcBox?

Reviewer: Same comment for Arcbox-SQL. We should avoid using ArcBox as a name unless this is an actual ArcBox flavor

Author: Using a nested VM in Hyper-V for this scenario and used ArcBox as it has built-in capabilities. Any suggestions for the name? I thought of changing name needed after review.

Author: Fixed all naming conventions

> As part of this scenario deployment Defender for SQL Servers on machine plan is enabled and Log Analytics workspace created in the scenario will be assigned as default workspace for Defender for Cloud.

Reviewer: this sentence is a bit confusing, not sure what its trying to convey

Author: It is just note to the user about the Defender for SQL plan is enabled as it has cost associated with it. It will enable for all machines in the subscription, even though we create one VM in this scenario. Let me rephrase little bit.

Author: Updated based on your comments

    }
    ```

    > **NOTE: If you create multiple subsequent role assignments on the same service principal, your client secret (password) will be destroyed and recreated each time. Therefore, make sure you grab the correct password**.

    > **NOTE: The Jumpstart scenarios are designed with as much ease of use in-mind and adhering to security-related best practices whenever possible. It is optional but highly recommended to scope the service principal to a specific [Azure subscription and resource group](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest) as well considering using a [less privileged service principal account](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/role-based-access-control/best-practices)**

- As part of the scenario deployment following resource providers are registered in your subscription to support Azure Arc-enabled SQL Server.

  - Microsoft.AzureArcData
  - Microsoft.HybridCompute
  - Microsoft.OperationsManagement
  - Microsoft.HybridConnectivity
  - Microsoft.GuestConfiguration
  
## Automation Flow

The automation for this scenario includes different PowerShell scripts executed in the following order:

> 1. [*Bootstrap.ps1*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/defendersql/scripts/Bootstrap.ps1) - Executed at ARM Template deployment time as a CustomScriptExtension. This script has the following functionalities:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [_Bootstrap.ps1_](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/defendersql/scripts/Bootstrap.ps1) - Executed at ARM Template deployment time as a CustomScriptExtension. This script has the following functionalities:
```

    1. Download and install pre-requisite utilities via [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/).
    2. Download the [*ArcServersLogonScript.ps1*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/defendersql/scripts/ArcServersLogonScript.ps1), [*installArcAgentSQLSP.ps1*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/defendersql/scripts/installArcAgentSQLSP.ps1), and [*testDefenderForSQL.ps1*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/defendersql/scripts/testDefenderForSQL.ps1) scripts.

2. [*ArcServersLogonScript.ps1*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/defendersql/scripts/ArcServersLogonScript.ps1) - Executed upon initial login to the **JS-Client** Azure virtual machine. This script has the following functionalities:

>     1. Install Windows Hyper-V server and configure networking.
>     2. Create a guest Windows Server VM with SQL Server pre-installed.
>     3. Restore AdventureWorksLT2019 Database.
>     4. Execute the *ArcServersLogonScript.ps1* script.
>     5. Enable Defender for SQL Servers on Machine at subscription level and setup default Log Analytics workspace.
>     6. Execute the *testDefenderForSQL.ps1* script to simulate SQL attacks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Install Windows Hyper-V server and configure networking.
    2. Create a guest Windows Server VM with SQL Server pre-installed.
    3. Restore _AdventureWorksLT2019_ Database.
    4. Execute the *ArcServersLogonScript.ps1* script.
    5. Enable Defender for SQL Servers on Machine at the subscription level and setup the default Log Analytics workspace.
    6. Execute the *testDefenderForSQL.ps1* script to simulate SQL attacks.
```

3. [*installArcAgentSQLSP.ps1*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/defendersql/scripts/installArcAgentSQLSP.ps1) - This is the main script and will be executed by the *ArcServersLogonScript.ps1* script at VM runtime. This script has the following functionalities:

>     1. Project SQL Server as an Azure Arc-enabled SQL server resource
>     2. Install Log Analytics agent using an extension on Azure Arc-enabled server
>     3. Create SQL Assessment and inject data to Azure Log Analytics workspace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Project SQL Server as an Azure Arc-enabled SQL server resource
    2. Install the Log Analytics agent using an extension on the Azure Arc-enabled server
    3. Create SQL Assessment and inject data to Azure Log Analytics workspace
```

To get familiar with the automation and deployment flow read the following explanation.

1. User edits the ARM template parameters file (1-time edit). These parameters values are used throughout the deployment.

2. The ARM template includes an Azure VM Custom Script Extension which will deploy the [*Bootstrap.ps1*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/defendersql/scripts/Bootstrap.ps1) PowerShell Script. The script will:

>     1. Download the *ArcServersLogonScript.ps1*,  *installArcAgentSQLSP*, and  *testDefenderForSQL.ps1* PowerShell scripts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Download the *ArcServersLogonScript.ps1*,  *installArcAgentSQLSP*, and *testDefenderForSQL.ps1* PowerShell scripts
```

    2. Set local OS environment variables

## Deployment

As mentioned, this deployment will use an ARM Template. You will deploy a single template that creates all the Azure resources in a single resource group as well as onboarding the nested Hyper-V guest SQL Server VM to Azure Arc.

- Before deploying the ARM template, login to Azure using AZ CLI with the ```az login``` command.

> - The deployment uses the ARM template parameters file. Before initiating the deployment, edit the [*azuredeploy.parameters.json*](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/defendersql/azuredeploy.parameters.json) file located in your local cloned repository folder. An example parameters file is located [here](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/blob/main/azure_arc_sqlsrv_jumpstart/azure/defendersql/azuredeploy.parameters.example.json).

Author: You are right missed this file. Created new one and committed.

This section guides you through different settings for enabling Microsoft Defender for Cloud - SQL servers on machines. Most of these settings are already enabled during the logon script execution when login to _JS-Client_ Azure VM. Even though these are pre-configured there might be delays in showing them in the Azure portal.

- Following are the settings of Microsoft Defender for Cloud - SQL servers on machines configured using automation scripts and can be reviewed in Azure portal.

  ![Screenshot showing Microsoft Defender for Cloud plans](./microsoft-defender-plans.png)

  ![Screenshot showing Microsoft Defender for Cloud SQL enabled](./defender-sql-plan.png)

- Following screen shows Arc-enabled SQL server Defender for Cloud enablement and protection status. Defender for Cloud for SQL Server is enabled at the subscription level, but protection status is still showing is not enabled. Please note it may take sometime to show this status in Azure portal, but still able to detect SQL threats generated by the test scripts.

  ![Screenshot showing Microsoft Defender for Cloud - Arc-enabled SQL server status](./arcsql-defender-status.png)

> - Following screen shows the SQL threat detected by Defender for Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The below screenshot shows the SQL threat detected by Defender for Cloud.
```

  ![Screenshot showing Defender for SQL security incidents and alerts](./defender-sql-security-incidents.png)

> - Following is the test script used to generate SQL threats, detect, and alert using Defender for Cloud for SQL servers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The below screenshot shows the test script used to generate SQL threats, detect, and alert using Defender for Cloud for SQL servers.
```

  ![Screenshot showing Defender for SQL test scripts](./defender-sql-testing-script.png)

> - Please note once in a while these test execution may fails randomly. If you don't find these alerts, login to nested SQL VM in Hyper-V and execute test script manually as show below.

Reviewer 2: Why it is failing?

Author: There are some bugs in the PS commands. This is what I have escalated to the engineering team review and fix. This is not a showstopper for now. New script is consistently generating alerts and good with the scenario.

  ![Screenshot showing manual execution of the test scripts](./manual-brute-force-test.png)

> - Following is an email alert sent by Defender for Cloud when SQL threat is detected. By default this email is sent to the registered contact email at the subscription level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The below screenshot shows an email alert sent by Defender for Cloud when a SQL threat is detected. By default, this email is sent to the registered contact email at the subscription level.
```
